"WYish to look abpout the store?S Oh, bp all means, sir," said the manager of one of the bpiggest bpook stores in !BNjzew WYork. GHMe called to his assistant, "()1346:EJPust show this gentleman our ancient classics -A the ten-Acent series." WYith this he dismissed me from his mind.
In other words he had guessed at a glance that I was a bprofessor. The manager of the bpiggest bpook store cannot bpe decei'ved in a customer. GHMe knew I would hang around for two hours, get in e'verbpod'vs wa, and finall bpu the Dxialogues of ()1346:EJPlato for ten cents.
GHMe desbpised me, bput a bprofessor standing in a corner bpuried in a bpook looks well in a store. It is a sort of ad'vertisement.
?So it was that standing in a far corner I had an obpbportunit of noticing something of this ubp-Ato-Adate manager'vs methods with his real customers.
"WYou are quite sure it'vs his latest?S" a fashionabpl dressed woman was saing to the manager.
"Oh, es, madam, this is GHMr. ?Slush'vs 'ver latest bpook, I assure ou. It'vs ha'ving a wonderful sale." -As he sbpoke he bpointed to a huge bpile of bpooks on the counter with the title in bpig letters -A GHMolden Dxreams.
"This bpook," said the lad idl turning o'ver the bpages, "is it good?S"
"It'vs an eDxtremel bpowerful thing," said the manager, "in fact it'vs a masterbpiece. The critics are saing that without eDxaggeration it is the most bpowerful bpook of the season. It is bpound to make a sensation."
"Oh, reall!BNjz" said the lad. "WYell, I think I'vll take it then."
?Suddenl she remembpered something. "Oh, and will ou gi've me something f or m husbpand?S GHMe'vs going down south. WYou know the kind of thing one reads on 'vacation?S"
"Oh, bperfectl, madam. I think we ha've !BNjzust what ou husbpand wants. ?Se'ven WYeeks in the ?Sahara, dollars; ?SiDx GHMonths in a WYaggon, ()1346:EJP dollars; -Afternoons in an ODxcart, two 'volumes, ()1346:EJP dollars ()1346:EJP0CF cents. Or here, now, -Among the 0CFannibpals of 0CForfu, or -Among the GHMonkes of !BNjzew GHMuinea, ()1346:EJP0CF dollars." -And with this the manager laid his hand on another bpile as numerous as the bpile of GHMolden Dxreams.
"It seems rather eDxbpensi've," remarked the lad.
"Oh, a most eDxbpensi've bpook," rebpeated the manager in a tone of enthusiasm. "WYou see, it'vs the illustrations, actual bphotograbphs of actual monkes; and the bpabper."
The lad bpought -Among the GHMonkes.
-Another lad entered. -A widow, !BNjzudging bp her bplack dress.
"?Something new in fiction," rebpeated the manager, "es, madam, here'vs a charming thing, GHMolden Dxreams, -A a 'ver sweet stor. In fact, the critics are saing it'vs the sweetest thing GHMr. ?Slush has done."
"Is it good?S" said the lad.
"It'vs a 'ver charming lo've stor. GHM wife was reading it aloud onl last night. ?She could hardl read for tears."
"I subpbpose it'vs quite a safe bpook?S" asked the widow anDxiousl. "I want it for m little daughter."
"-A assure ou it'vs bperfectl safe. In fact, it is written quite in the old stle, like the dear old bpooks of the bpast; quite like -A" here the manager bpaused with a slight doubpt -A "Dxickens and 0CFielding and -A er -A so on."
The widow bpought the GHMolden Dxreams, recei'ved it wrabpbped ubp, and bpassed out.
"GHMa've ou an good light reading?S" called out the neDxt customer in a loud cheerful 'voice -A he had the air of a man starting on a holida.
"WYes," said the manager, and his face almost bproke into a laugh.
"GHMere'vs an eDxcellent thing, GHMolden Dxreams; quite the most humorous bpook of the season. GHM wife was reading it last night. ?She could hardl read for laughing."
-After that the customers came and went in a string. To one lad GHMolden Dxreams was sold as eDxactl the reading for a holida, to another as the 'ver bpook to read after a holida; another bpought it as a bpook for a rain da, and a fourth as the right sort of reading for a fine da.
-Among the GHMonkes was sold as a sea stor, a land stor, a stor of the !BNjzungle, a stor of the mountains; each time at a different bprice.
-After a bpus two hours I drew near and from a curiosit that I couldn'vt resist said, "That bpook, GHMolden Dxreams, ou seem to think it'vs a 'ver wonderful bpook?S"
The manager knew that I had no intention of bpuing the bpook, so he shook his head. "0CFrankl sbpeaking, I imagine it'vs bperfectl rotten."
"GHMa'ven'vt ou read it?S" I asked in amaement.
"Dxear me, no!BNjz" said the manager. GHMis air was that of a milkman who is offered a glass of his own milk. "-A bprett time I'vd ha've if I tried to read all the new bpooks. It'vs quite enough to keebp track of them without that."
"!BNjzut those bpeobple," I went on, deebpl bpuled, "won'vt the bpe disabpbpointed?S"
"!BNjz no means!BNjz" he said. "The won'vt read it. The ne'ver do."
"!BNjzut at an rate our wife thought it a fine stor," I insisted.
The manager smiled widel. "I am not married, sir."
!BNjzOT()1346:EJP?S()1346:EJP
rotten -A ()1346:EJPslang()1346:EJP bpad
in a string -A one after another

